RP Cloud Overview and Security doc (#1504)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/deploy/deployment-option/cloud/security/cloud-security-architecture/cloud-availability.mdx

---
title: Availability
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Redpanda Cloud Availability  | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Learn how Redpanda Cloud supports deploying Redpanda clusters in single or multiple Availability Zones (AZ)."/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/deploy/deployment-option/cloud/security/cloud-security-architecture/availability/" />
</head>

Redpanda Cloud supports the deployment of Redpanda clusters in single or multiple

> Availability Zones (AZ), spanning at most three AZs. Nodes are evenly distributed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
availability zones (AZ), spanning at most three AZs. Nodes are evenly distributed
```

across AZs, and [default_topic_replications](../../../../../../reference/cluster-properties#default_topic_replications)

> is set to `3` by default. Data is also evenly distributed across AZs automatically. This behavior is also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is set to `3` by default. Data is evenly distributed across AZs automatically. This behavior is also
```

> known as rack or AZ awareness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
known as rack awareness.
```
just suggestion, but pretty sure that our doc only calls it rack awareness

> is set to `3` by default. Data is also evenly distributed across AZs automatically. This behavior is also
> known as rack or AZ awareness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is set to `3` by default. Data is evenly distributed across AZs automatically. This behavior is also
known as rack awareness.
```

> To prevent downtime during cluster upgrades, the Redpanda Cloud
> cluster operator upgrades a single Redpanda broker at a time, and always
> waits for the health of the cluster to return to its nominal state before
> continuing with the next broker upgrade, until all brokers are fully rolled out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent downtime during cluster upgrades, the Redpanda Cloud
cluster operator upgrades one broker at a time. It
waits for the health of the cluster to return to its nominal state before
continuing with the next broker upgrade, until all brokers are fully rolled out.
```

> Redpanda’s Support, Cloud, and Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) teams monitor

Reviewer 2: Security team too

> Redpanda Cloud Clusters 24/7 to ensure they meet availability Service Level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
clusters 24/7 to ensure they meet availability Service Level
```

> Redpanda Cloud Clusters 24/7 to ensure they meet availability Service Level
> Agreements (SLAs). If incidents occur, teams at Redpanda trigger an incident

Reviewer: ```suggestion
clusters 24/7 to ensure they meet availability service-level
agreements (SLAs). If incidents occur, teams at Redpanda trigger an incident
```

> To prevent downtime during Redpanda Cloud cluster upgrades, the Redpanda Cloud
> cluster operator slowly upgrades a single Redpanda broker at a time, and always
> waits for the health of the cluster to return to its nominal state before
> continuing with the next broker upgrade, until all brokers are fully rolled out.
> 
> Redpanda’s Support, Cloud, Security, and Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) teams monitor
> Redpanda Cloud Clusters 24/7 to ensure they meet availability Service Level
> Agreement (SLA)s. If incidents occur, teams at Redpanda trigger an incident
> response process to quickly mitigate them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent downtime during cluster upgrades, the Redpanda Cloud
cluster operator upgrades a single Redpanda broker at a time, and always
waits for the health of the cluster to return to its nominal state before
continuing with the next broker upgrade, until all brokers are fully rolled out.

Redpanda’s Support, Security, and Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) teams monitor
Redpanda Cloud Clusters 24/7 to ensure they meet availability Service Level
Agreements (SLAs). If incidents occur, teams at Redpanda trigger an incident
response process to quickly mitigate them.
```
